.TH VALIDATE-AUTONOMOUS-GATE-EVIDENCE 1 "2026-07-20" "autonomous-run-governance 0.3.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
validate-autonomous-gate-evidence \- validate exact-head delivery gates
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bash validate-autonomous-gate-evidence.sh
.BR --requirements " FILE "
.BR --evidence " FILE "
.BR --head " SHA"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Validates a reviewed gate-requirements JSON file against a provider-neutral
execution-evidence JSON file for one full Git object ID. The command checks the
requirements hash, complete gate coverage, Applicable and N/A boundaries,
required command and runner tokens, and Primary versus Supplemental evidence.
.PP
The command is read-only. Success grants no commit, push, pull-request, merge,
bypass, cancellation, secret, or provider-administration authority.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --requirements FILE
Accepted gate requirements declared before delivery.
.TP
.B --evidence FILE
Temporary exact-head execution evidence derived from workflow definitions or
job logs.
.TP
.B --head SHA
Expected full 40- or 64-character hexadecimal Git object ID.
.TP
.B -h, --help
Show command help.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Zero means the machine-checkable contract passed. One means evidence validation
failed. Two means invocation or dependency setup failed.
.SH NOTES
The Bash variant requires Python 3 or Python for strict JSON parsing. Invoke it
through bash because preset installation or ZIP extraction may not preserve the
Git executable mode. On Windows, use pwsh -NoProfile -File with
validate-autonomous-gate-evidence.ps1. Keep provider evidence temporary before
merge because committing it creates a new head and self-invalidates the
reviewed-head claim.
.PP
Dot-source the PowerShell script to make the equivalent advanced function
Test-AutonomousGateEvidence available in the current session.
.SH SEE ALSO
specify(1), git(1)
